[Music]
so I'm an artist and then I live in New
York and I've been working in
advertising for ever since I left school
so about seven eight years now and it
was draining I worked a lot of late
nights I worked a lot of weekends and I
found myself never having time for all
the projects that I wanted to work on on
my own and one day I was at work and I
saw a talk by Stefan Sagmeister on Ted
it was called the power of time off and
he spoke about how every seven years he
takes a year off from work so he could
do his own creative project and I was
instantly inspired and I just said I
have to do that I have to take a year
off I need to I need to take time to
travel and spend time with my family and
start my own creative ideas so the first
of those projects ended up being
something I called one second everyday
basically I'm recording one second of
every day of my life for the rest of my
life
chronologically compiling these
one-second tiny slices of my life into
one single continuous video until you
know I can't record them anymore
the purpose of this project is one I
hate not remembering things that I've
done in the past
there's all these things that I've done
with my life that I have no recollection
of unless someone brings it up and
sometimes I think oh yeah that's that's
something that I you know did and and
something that I realized the early on
in the project was that if I wasn't
doing anything interesting I would
probably forget to record the video so
the day that the first time that I
forgot it really hurt me because it's
something that you know I really wanted
to you know from the moment that I
turned 30 I wanted to keep this project
going until uh you know forever and
having missed that one second I realized
it just kind of created this thing in my
head where I never forgot ever again so
if I live to see 80 years of age I'm
going to have a five-hour video that
encapsulates 50 years of my life when I
turn 40 I'll have a one-hour video that
includes just my 30s this is really
invigorated me day-to-day when I wake up
to try and do something interesting with
my day
now one of the things that I have issues
with is that as the days and weeks and
months go by time just seems to start
blurring and blending into each other
and you know I I hated that and and
visualization is the way to trigger
memory you know this project for me is a
way for me to bridge that gap and
remember everything that I've done it
even just this one second that lasts me
to remember everything else that I did
that one day it's difficult sometimes to
pick that one second on a good day I'll
have maybe three or four seconds that I
really want to choose but I'll just have
to narrow it down to one but even
narrowing it down to that one eye allows
me to remember the other three anyway
it's also kind of a protest personal
protest against the culture we have now
where people just are at concerts with
their cell phones out recording the
whole concert and they're disturbing you
they're not even enjoying the show
they're watching the concert to do their
cell phone I hate that I admittedly used
to be that guy a little bit back in the
day and I've decided that the best way
for me to still capture and keep a
visual memory of my life and not be that
person is to just record that one second
that will allow me to trigger that
memory of yeah that concert was amazing
I really loved to that concert and it
just takes a quick quick second I was in
a three-month road trip this summer was
something that I've been dreaming about
doing my whole life just driving around
the u.s. and Canada and just figuring
out where to go the next day and it was
a it was kind of outstanding I actually
ran out I spent too much money on my
road trip for my the savings that I had
to take my year off so I had to I went
to Seattle and I spent some time with
friends working on a really neat project
[Music]
one of the reasons that I took my year
off was to spend more time with my
family and this really tragic thing
happened where my sister-in-law her
intestines suddenly strangled one day
and we took her to the emergency room
and she was she was in really bad shape
we almost almost lost her a couple of
times and I was there with you know my
brother every day and it's it helped me
realize something else during this
project is that you know recording those
that one second on a really bad day is
extremely difficult it's it's not we
tend to take our cameras out when we're
doing awesome things or were oh yeah
this party let's let me take a picture
but we rarely do that when we're having
a bad day and something horrible is
happening and I found that it's actually
been very very important to record even
just that one second of a really bad
moment it really helps you appreciate
the good times it's not always a good
day so when you have a bad one I think
it's important to remember it just as
much as it is important to remember the
bad days
now one of the things that I do is I
don't use any filters I don't use
anything - I try to capture the moment
as much as possible as the way I saw it
with my own eyes I sorted a rule a
first-person perspective early on I
think I had a couple of videos where I I
would you know you see me in it but I
realized that wasn't the way to go the
way to really remember what I saw was to
record it as I actually saw it now a
couple of things that I have in my head
about this project are wouldn't it be
interesting if thousands of people were
doing this I turned 31 last week which
is there I think it would be interesting
to see what everyone did with a project
like this I think everyone would have a
different interpretation of it I think
everyone would benefit from just having
that one second to remember every day
personally I'm tired of forgetting and
and this is a really easy thing to do
and we all have HD capable cameras in
our pockets right now most people in
this room I bet and it's something
that's you know I never want to forget
another day that I've ever lived and
this is my way of doing that and be
really interesting also to see if you
could just type in a look on a website
like June 18th 2018 and you would just
see a stream of people's lives on that
particular day from all over the world
and I don't know I think this project
has a lot of possibilities and I I
encourage you all to record just a small
snippet of your life every day so you
can never forget it that day you lived
thank you
you
[Music]